If it's not working. OK, so you could have some kind of, you could have. So what do you mean? Not one of the last two system calls? You mean, if I do a system call, it always goes back to me, unless I'm exiting, unless I'm magnetic or yielding. Okay. So you could, you could. So that's kind of the other extreme. So a process will keep running until. it's either over or explicitly says, I'm willing to stop running now, right? So I'll call you and you'll never stop it running under any other circumstances. You'll always go back to this. So I want to say something that we wouldn't talk about for the retirement. So I haven't really. OK, you could actually, I mean, you could actually do that now, if you want to. You don't have interrupts, but you can still, you still have a timer device that the kernel can look at. You can still look at what the clock was when that test started running, and what the clock is now, when you come back into the kernel for an exception, and you can see how much time that task has run for OK. And you could implement a, you know, when a lot of other kernels do, which is some kind of quantum based policy, which says, you know, I'm gonna let you run for at least a 2nd or 100 milliseconds, or something like that, before I will put you to the back of the line next to assistant department So if you keep track of time, you can make sure that a process will get at least whatever your quantum your like quantum and, you know, like some fixed chunk of times. We make sure that whenever a process starts running, it will get at least that much time on to run. So we won't want to come back to the line if it comes in before that So that will be kind of an extension to round robin that just kind of guarantees that each time the process goes to a little bit some minimum amount of service, unless it deals well. exits. Yeah. I mean, from my. so it's your. choice. You could do either one resistance in the simplest thing to do is simple round robin with no quantum you have since. you have no particular goals at this point for the scheduling my suggestion is stick with the signal, but I just want I just want you to understand that you have some flexibility here in what the schedule is so if you don't have you know unless you have some reason for doing that quantum sticking with the simple ground block. OK what if there's so those those examples that I was talking about just assuming that we have only one priority so what if we have more than 1 priority. OK so just to keep this simple. Let's imagine that we have two priorities and the basic rule when we have priorities is that a lower priority task should never be running if there's a higher priority test is written. there's a higher priority test that's ready, it should have one of the highest priority tasks that is ready is the one that the colonel should be picking to yeah always in the high priority task you'll you always want to run a highest priority task. There might be more than one highest priority task, which you always want to be running the highest priority task if there are if there are such tasks available question what if what if some tasks are equally important and we don't wanna starve them some tasks so if there are tasks that are equally important that you can give them the same priority. not mean by equally important. I mean like a task we we still need to run low priority tasks as well. So for this assignment you will for this assignment your your what your scheduler should do is always run high priority tasks when they are ready to run OK in future assignments. you may be able to relax that a little bit and there will be high priority tests in your system that can be blocked and when those when your high priority tasks are blocked that will give the lower priority chance and opportunity to run. But for this assignment we have no blocking right so it should always be the high priority tasks that are running. if you have any in your system. so if a high priority task is running and it enters the kernel from because of the system call what could prevent it from running again. like under what so you got you got high priority and low priority you got high priority task running it does a system call you go into the kernel under what circumstances would the kernel not go back to that process after the system call yeah if it gets blocked OK there's no blocking in K1 so if this priority gets lowered there's no mechanism for lowering priorities in this assignment OK so if so I'm not imagining there's only two priorities right so if there's another task with the that is also high priority the kernel should pick that as well. If you're doing round Robin scheduling of the hyper 8 test. So that's one way that we might not go back to that high priority test and what's another reason we might we wouldn't go back to that high priority test. if it kills it's right that stone that's the that's a system call that will cause the kernel to obviously pick somebody else for one because that. high priority test is done so so the question is it exit is also system call so like after system call that has not gonna run again like exit is also a system call yes so it could be an interrupt at the kernel and working also be an exit svc intro by the kernel SVC is the is the instruction that we're using to implement system calls so to to implement exit you're gonna be doing an SVC instruction and that's what's gonna cause the trap into the kernel exception user and they've heard implantation is really different than what you're describing O. K. O. K. That's something that that's. that's serious I think I'll tell me that. Let me ask you this question. So if there's a low priority task running, so we can reset 2 priorities and it enters the kernel because of the system call. What would prevent it from running again? Under what circumstances would the colonel not pick the same tasks to run again? Yeah. OK. So if it exits, we obviously won't pick that again. If there's another low priority task in the system, right? We could switch that low priority task. Can't. there be a high priority task in the system Can't right? So because if a low priority task is running, the only reason that low priority task should be running is because there's no high priority ready tasks in the system. But OK, if the system call is create, right? That's what's the low priority task does. It does create go into the kernel, and the task that is creating is a high priority task. Then the next. task to run after that system call should be that brand new task that we just created, because you want to enforce this rule that says that we always. run high priority tasks if we have them available. It's been. but there's no way that there could have been any high priority tasks in that low priority test was running. But it might create. in that case that's the one. alright. Hopefully that's clear And then just like some quick discussion of like how you're gonna implement this scheduler. So one. thing that you could do is you could kind of maintain a single priority queue essentially in the kernel of all ready tasks OK and a priority queue, meaning they're ordered by priority highest priority ones in the front lowest priority ones in the back went up tax comes into the kernel and you make it ready because you're gonna stop it running. You have to insert it into that priority queue and then the scheduler will pick that whoever's at the front of that queue right as the next task to run. so that's sounds like a relatively simple thing to do it's very easy to choose the next task to run because it's always at the front of the queue, but it means inserting the task that just came in is a little more complicated because you need to insert it in priority order. So if it's a low priority task, you need to put it at the end if it's a high priority task you need to put it at the end of the high priority tasks in that queue so. maybe a simpler way of doing this, which perhaps you've already done is to have a huge. per priority level. Okay. And when a task comes into the kernel and you make it ready, you put it on the queue corresponds. to its priority. You put it at the end of that queue and then to to choose the next task. The kernel picks the front task from the highest level queue that has tasks in it. So the kernel has to sort of run down that list of ready queues and find the 1st one that has something. so that's kind of a nice approach if you haven't done this already that has insertion is very easy and. choosing the best test to run is still pretty easy. You can't just take the front thing in the queue. You have to find a queue that has something in it, and then you take the front thing from that OK. and the nice thing about both of those schemes is a task is a ready task is only ever on one queue so. if you have a task structure and your task structure contains a next pointer that you use to put that task into a queue, you only need one next pointer in your task structure. because it will only ever be on a single key. alright? OK, let's talk a little bit about. memory and. I'm gonna talk about synchronization too, but let me talk about you first. so the main the main take away from this is. although we're not implementing any mechanisms to enforce this idea. here is that tasks. should never share data with each other and task. should certainly never shared data with the current. right. So there should be no global structures that are used by more than one task. And no global structure that shared between the kernel and a task. OK, if you're doing that, you're you're not doing this the way that you should be in a system that implemented memory protection and sort of harder boundaries between tasks that have. sharing would just not be possible in our world. We don't have that mechanism. It is possible for you to do that. But don't do it and I'll talk about why in a second. Yeah, um, so not really. I mean, you need something that's I mean to implement memory protection correctly, you need something that's checking on every instruction execution to make sure that you're not using? any proper address so you need hardware symbol to do it versus golf. It's too long to check. Have the kernel checked that what? rather than allowing any defence. OK, I'm not sure what exactly you'd be checking I mean, sometimes you. Yeah, sometimes you pass a on a system call like send or receive that we're gonna implement next task. A task will actually passing a pointer into the kernel like a pointer to a buffer and. the kernel could you know potentially check that pointer in length to see whether it's in a part of the memory that has been it has assigned to this yes, so you could do that kind of check alright so. the philosophy for the this kernel that you're building for this course is that because we have no shared data between tasks we have no need and because tasks are just sequential executions we have no need for. synchronization mechanisms that we would otherwise need to protect those global structures. So we have no need for locks or semaphores or condition variables or the kinds of things that you you know would have seen in 343 or CS350 that you're probably already familiar with because what those objects are doing is protecting shared. objects that are accessed by more than 1THREAD. OK and in in this class because you're not sharing any data in between. these tasks there's no there's no sharing like that that we need to protect against the nice thing. and the nice thing about that is if you're trying to figure out how long something takes to execute because we're worried about the kind of real time things and one of the things that that you know that operation needs to do is to acquire a lock It's very difficult to predict how long it's gonna take for you to get that block because that depends on what's going on with concurrent tasks. So because we don't have any locks when a test is running, we don't have to worry about sort of guessing how long it's gonna take to acquire locks or semaphores during its execution. So that's a that's a That's a good thing. It makes analysis of the tasks a little easier. So that said, we're gonna we want some way for tasks to communicate with each other and we're gonna need some form of synchronization between you. It's not gonna come from locks because we don't have shared data structures. It's gonna have to come from something else. So the way that tax tests are gonna communicate. in your kernel is through explicit message passing. OK, there's send and receive and reply mechanism that you're gonna implement as part of K2 not through sharing data so. if you need if information needs to flow from 1 process to another we will be through an exchange of messages and the message passing primitives that you're going to implement, which I'll talk a little bit about later today are. synchronous primitives so they can will cause blocking if necessary OK when messages are being exchanged and so if you do need. delays if you do need to wait for things to occur it won't. be through locks that you'll be implementing that delay. It will be through this synchronous message exchange. That's the that that is the those are the fundamental primitives that this that your microkernel is gonna support that will let tasks. synchronize with each other. OK so hopefully this will be a little clearer when I talk about the tasks so no. sharing of data between tasks. or between tasks and kernel. and communication. and synchronization. But I mean communication between processes synchronization between processes is gonna be via the message. the message passing. a. P. I that your kernels domain's in it. OK, so there's one other form of sharing that I wanna talk that's like harder to avoid that I want to talk about before I sort of go on and talk about this these the message passing APIS and that's so memory sharing. I can just stand up here and say don't share memory and you don't. share memory and everything's good. But the other thing that we have in the system that we might need to share is that devices themselves like the U arts and the timer OK and all as you know those devices are managed through a set of registers right which are located at particular memory addresses. that your code accesses to sort of control those devices and read and write data and so on. OK so the way we're gonna deal with device sharing for now at least is we're just is you're just gonna need to limit the tasks that are accessing the device and we'll try to do something sort of a little more explicit for this later on so imagine that you just like let's imagine that we're talking about sort of the console you want or the the train control you want and imagine I have two tasks that are both trying to use that viewer OK maybe they're both trying to write a character to that you are to send it out to the console OK the U art has a fifo. the Fifo has you know only space for one more character in it before it overflows right and both of those tasks have a character that they wanna write to that Fifo right so that we just kind of allow uncontrolled sharing both of them if they do you are put see both of them are gonna sort of check the flag that said. you know is there still space in the Fifo right and the flag will have them yes their space in the Fifo and both of them can then try to write a character into the Fifo but of course there was only room for one. OK so that's not a big problem now because we don't you're not gonna you can't get preempted at arbitrary time but it's very quickly and it become a problem as soon as we have interruption exceptions so that's the kind of sort of sharing that we potentially need to worry about if we have multiple tasks that we need to do business. so for now we're just gonna say just be careful about the way that you use these these devices so One task is using it at a time, or that only one task is ever using it. And going forward, we're going to move to a world where we have servers. right? Tasks that are responsible for a particular device, like a timer, and will be the only thing that are accessing that device. And other tasks that need information about the timer will use these message passing mechanisms to contact the server. So the will avoid sharing of devices that way and rely on this scene. synchronization mechanism that we have here to synchronize access to the device If two of you need to send something to the device, you'll both be talking to the same server process. And the server process can block one of you and allow the other to write the character. Why can't we just have the crowd do that? We could have the colonel do that in in a lot of operating systems. That's exactly what happens, right? The kernel is responsible, like all device access is done through the kernel. And the kernel can sort of prioritize and schedule things. But we're trying to make this minimal kernel that does as little as possible. And part of that is pushing control. of the devices out of the kernel and into the other process. But you absolutely put out the kernel do that. Why don't you just implement locks Nothing would prevent you from doing that. The only problem with the locks is that it's it's hard to figure out how it's harder to analyze tasks that you want because you don't know how long it is going to take for them to acquire these things. So it's kind of A, It's kind of a philosophical decision, right? in the design of this kernel that all the synchronization is going to be done through this one mechanism that we can that we can work with. O. K. So there's a colonel api called await event, which. is something that we're going to use to do device synchronization later on. So that will be added to this list. And so these and that await event mechanism that you implement later are the ways. that the synchronization is going to be. all right. So let's talk a little about this. The message passing in the way that it's going to work because this message passing API that you'll be building for K2 is a little bit different than what mechanisms that you're probably used to like sockets. All of those other mechanisms involved buffering. buffering data in the kernel as it's flowing from one process to another and the API that you're gonna implement for this test is not to do that. O. K. So for this class for K2. there's three message passing primitives system calls. that. your colonels can implement. I'll send and receive and reply. So the idea is with this api is that? when a sender wants to send a message it will use this send system call OK and it will specify the TID the task ID of the task that it wants to send the message to and then there's some other parameters to this that specify the message itself that it's trying to send basically. you'll the the sending task will sort of put the message in a buffer and will pass a pointer to the buffer as a parameter to this send call along with another parameter that tells the size of the buffer size of the message. OK. so that's the send call. and when a process does a send call it's it will block until the messages received by the receiver and the receiver eventually generates a reply and when the receiver generates a reply that. reply will get delivered to the sender and the sender will unblock and be able to step up. OK so when when the sender when the send call the sender makes returns the sender knows that the receiver has received the message and has generated a reply which will be available to the sender at that point. OK so let me actually do this. second here. One second. Alright. So I'm just gonna go ahead and write these. So this looks like. TID, and a. shower * which is a pointer to a message buffer and an int. message length. And another char *. points to another buffer and. and is. OK, so this is the T idea of the task that you're trying to send the message to. This is a pointer to a buffer in the sender process that contains the message that it's trying to send. And this is the length of the message, because the kernel would have no way of knowing otherwise. This is a pointer to another buffer in the same. process that's gonna hold the reply when the reply is sent. And this is the size of the reply buffer, which is the maximum size of the reply that can come back. OK, so you do that send, and you basically block. So this is where blocking comes in for the first time, until the messages that are received by the receiver, and when you wake up from send, you should find a message in your reply buffer, which is no longer than this. OK, that the receiving side. it looks like. int.* TID. Char star. message. OK, so if you when you want to receive a message you do a receive system call you provide. a buffer, an empty buffer in your space and you pass a pointer to your buffer there and you specify the size of the buffer that you provided OK and when this call returns there will be a message for you in your buffer and. this will be filled in with the task id of the task that sent that message. So this is a receive from anyone. Get me. get me the next message that somebody has sent me OK and when I come back this will tell me who sent it and this will be where I will look for the message itself. OK. and when I receive if there are no messages waiting to be delivered to me, I will block OK until somebody sends me a message, at which point I will wake up and I'll find out who the message came from and what the message is. how I tried to send you more than I so I think that this call yes. so this think of this is like the maximum size of the message that I can receive because this is the size of the buffer that I have created here in the kernel is gonna make sure that it never puts more than this amount of data into my buffer no matter how much is sent to me that's right so if the sender sends 100 bytes and you do a receive with a 50 byte buffer you're just gonna get the first 50 bytes of that message. That means you have a bug in your application right the kernel's gonna make sure the kernel's job is not to overfill your buffer and that when when the return value from this system call is the actual length of the message that was received so that you know that as a you know a 75 byte message was written into your 100 byte buffer and you should just look at the first 75 bits of my message. that's a good question which I'm I'm not gonna answer yet but the sender needs to know that in order to do the send and we'll have to have some way of figuring that out so that's a great question that we will come to but II don't wanna talk about it now OK. so this can block if there are no messages waiting for this process OK if there's no there's no messages waiting and once the receiver receives this its job is to go off and sort of do whatever processing it needs to do with that incoming message. So think about a server that's receiving requests by doing this receive call it will find out what the request is by looking at the message in the buffer it will do whatever processing it needs to do for that and eventually it will reply to the sender of the message by calling reply. OK and when it calls reply it's gonna specify. TID like who is it that I am. sending to. it'll provide a buffer that contains the reply message and it will specify. the length of the reply message that it's sending back. OK so why is there ATID here? like if I always if I always receive a message and then immediately turn around and reply to it shouldn't even. need to specify ATID here because I. should you know implicitly be replying to whoever it was that sent me the message right but I might so yeah. OK not interrupted or you know maybe this may be the server is like maybe the receivers like not able to process this message right away and it process it later and in between it might receive some more messages so when I generate a reply I'm especially I'm essentially specifying you know which of the messages that I receive am I replying to OK by specifying this TIDOK so when I do this this TID the kernel needs to check that this TID matches the TID of a process that sent a message here that was received. I can't just send an arbitrary message to an arbitrary process by doing this I can only send a reply to somebody whose message I have already received. OK, this is the reply message. This is the reply length. OK, the reply goes, and the. this will never block. And the sender will get the reply message in this buffer, which has that maximum length. And the sender will wake up when it gets that reply and continue on from the send. So the sender will block, yes, the receive may block. if there are no messages that have been sent to this task that have not been received yet. And their reply will never block. OK, so if you call receipt and you hear nothing, does the any come back to it? Is there an indication that you've got nothing? There's. no indication that you got nothing because you won't return. You block if there are no messages free You, you will. When you call receive, you will not continue executing beyond received until there is a message for you. Wouldn't that be a problem for for, say, for example, a server that's just always just listening? And whenever something, whenever he gets something, they might, they execute code, but they might get more stuff. But what if I'm, what if I'm waiting on two things? Like I'm waiting on either a receipt or something else. And the first of those two things, I execute something. Yeah. So one of the things, so one of the nice things about this is that kind of the only thing you can wait on at this point is messages, right? And when you do a receive, you're waiting for any message. right? So if you're a server you're gonna implement a loop that says you know, receive process. the message reply receive process the message reply. Receive process the message reply. And if you're a server, if there are messages for you, you will never block. The only way a server that's implemented that way is in these primitives will ever block, as if there are actually no, there's no work for it to do. There are no messages coming in The block would asleep because it makes sense for it to sleep. I say, say, okay, there's no work to do. I'll just sleep. Block means sleep. So block means the state of the process in the kernel is not ready or running. It's a blocked state. And that means that. you know, the the state of the task, the context is saved in the colonel and the scheduler will never pick it to run. So it's effectively sleeping. Yeah, server part of the kernel, or is it just a privilege task running at a higher priority? The name server is a task. I haven't talked about the name server yet for the last of you, but, but the main server is a task, like everything else It is a slightly special task in that it's TID needs to be known to. everybody. It's the only task that is like that. OK, but otherwise it's just a task, just a user test. There also be a possibility to implement receipt with a sort of timeout. So if I haven't received messages in, I don't know what time. you could do that. So that's, you know, that would be a nice generalization of this that would allow for an even more flexible server. Um, but I think you're going to find that this is probably enough. And if you want to add a timeout to this, I have no objection to that I noticed in the docks for send, yeah, you mentioned that the reply might not come through the task that you sent to. Just give an example of when that might occur. The reply might say, task that you sent to. Does it say that? Well, off the top of my head, I'm not sure why you would want to hand off hand processing of a request that way. I'll see if I can think of a reason why it was defined that way. But I, but you can, but the colonel can implement that, right? Clearly, the important thing is that when you reply, the kernel needs to check that there was a this TID is in. the blocked state is in the send blocked is in the reply block state. That is, it's actually expecting a reply. And as long as that's the case, a 3rd party. sort of could send the reply and that should work But why you want to do that? It's a great question. I can't think of a reason why I'm going to just sort of similar veto that is send them just a macro or reply to them see. you're sending a message to process TIP. response from an arbitrary process now. exactly because I mean, I can send to any TID right. I can't reply to any TID. right? I can only reply to ATID that is. in the state where is expecting a look like? so I don't wanna just implement send with reply if that's what you were suggesting it would happen because the the blocking is kind of asymmetric this never blocks by design. never blocks. OK so so these message passing primitives, these things introduce. the need for blocking in the kernel. So when that means before this we just had ready and running as the only possible states that a task could be in and now we need to introduce some new block states that a task can be in and the. main point that I wanna make here is that when a colonel is blocking a task it should. remember why And what is it that it is waiting for that would cause it to unblock? Right? So that the kernel can make sure that when it unlocks the thing, it's unblocking it for the right reason. OK, so you, in general, in a kernel, I mean, there may be many reasons why a task might block. We've got a couple of reasons here This might block and this might block, and those are different things. And so one way that the kernel can keep track of this is by having multiple block states that you can go in. that indicate that a task is blocked for different resets. OK, so for this, for these. for these primitives, right? We want to, we want a state called something like send weight Let me not call it send weight. What is called 7.5? which is the state that a task is gonna be in when it has sent a message. OK, and that message has not yet been received by a receiver. OK, and then we're gonna need a receive weight. which is a state that a task can go into if it has tried to receive something, but there are no messages for it. And we're gonna want something called. reply, wait. OK, which is the state that ascending task is in after its message has been received, but it has not gotten a reply yet. OK, so sender essentially goes through two weights, right? And it does the send. It might first enter this state, right? Until it's message has been received And then once its message has been received, it will move into this state, which indicates that all the messages been received, tells the kernel the message that message has been received. But this task is now waiting for a reply to the generated OK. And by distinguishing those two things, the Colonel knows what. it should expect for that task. What is it that's we're waiting for that task to do So think of a sender as, you know, when it makes the send call, it's running. When it goes into the kernel and to that same call, the kernel's gonna move it into this send waitstate. The task is now the centre task is now blocked. OK, when the receiver, some other task receives that message. right? The sender task is still blocked, but it's gonna transition to this block seat. So we know that the message has the kernel knows that that message has been received, but replies them and generated. And when the receiver eventually generates a reply, right? The original sending task will transition from reply weight to ready. right? Because now the reason for it to have been blocked is gone. And that. task is OK to start running again, and it will find the reply that it was waiting for in its buffer when it starts running. OK, so you're probably gonna want these states, or states like these, with your kernel to keep track of the blocking the tasks have to do as a result of these system calls. There's one more blocking system call gonna introduce later, called. a weight event. OK, and that will cause you to add more blocking states with the kernel. But for now, you're gonna need these three. OK, so let's talk about I can just kind of do this in the middle. So I wanna imagine a scenario where I've got sort of a task. This is task 1. I'll call it task s. This is gonna be the sender. And here's another. and here's another task. This is gonna be task r This is gonna play the role of the receiver and I have the kernel down here. and let's I'm gonna so I wanna sort of walk through two scenarios about what this how this looks and the difference between these two scenarios is different whether the send happens 1st or the receive happens 1st. OK so that task S there wants to send a message to taskbar that's the that's what's going on in order for that to happen this. needs to send and this needs to receive OK but what order are those gonna happen in? Well, I'm not really sure because those are two independent tasks and you know they're each executing their own code and I don't know how they're gonna be scheduled and what order that that happens. But let's imagine for starters that look at this scenario one. and in this scenario the send happens first. so first the sender's gonna send and then the receiver's gonna receive OK so what happens when the sender sends we're gonna have a system call. that this task makes that is gonna transfer control into the kernel OK. what is the kernel gonna do as a result of that system is a store all this information somewhere OK so I have a bunch of parameters that are coming in from the system call that I'm gonna need to keep track of that's definitely true test to some great OK so this so there's no receiver for this message right and so this task that did the send is gonna need to block and what it's blocking for at this point is for its message to be received so the. so this is task S sins. and the kernel. moves fast. s from ready. to assemble it. Thank you. So that task is now blocked. It's not on any ready queue. The kernel scheduler runs and it will pick some other tasks to run. OK eventually it will get around to picking task R to run and eventually task R will do a receive. so later TR receives. now what happens? So we got step two here is that this thing is running and it. does a receive system call. that takes it into the kernel and now the kernel is gonna do some. Do I need to block TR? No, don't need to block T on that received. Can return right away. TR can stay ready, right? Because I have a message for us from this. OK, so I'm gonna, I need to, the colonel needs to transition TS from send weight. So if I wait, since that task is now, this message has been received, and it's waiting for a reply. How will, how will the colonel know that there is a message for TR? How does it know not to block TR, that there's a message ready for it to receive OK, so I've got A, I've got some other tasks that did the send. How will the kernel find that task? OK, when where would you keep that cube? Yep, it was. safe to do it, please. OK, this is in the kernel though. We're doing that. We're doing this work. So I could have, I could have a big queue, one big queue in the kernel of all tasks that are in this send weight state, right? And I could run down that. list and see if any of those senders that are waiting were sending to me We're sending to TROK. And if there is, then I don't need to block, and I can do that. How could I avoid, like, looking down that entire list of senders? Because there might be other tasks that are sending things to other processes that are blocked, that are sitting on that list Is it possible to keep a queue with, like, within the task? Exactly. So I so another is for. is for every task as part of its state, right? You can keep a cube of tasks that are trying to send to that process. right? So every task sort of, normally, it has an empty queue. Every time somebody tries to, when I, when TS sends to TR right? If what I'm gonna do is, I'm gonna put TS, I'm gonna block it by putting it on the TRS sender queue, right? Which is a queue of all the tasks that are waiting to have a message delivered to TR. And then when TR does the receive, it's a very easy check. I look at my queue and I say, are there any tasks queued up for me that are trying to send messages to me? OK, and in this case, there should be one, because our scenario is that the sender sent 1st. And so we know that the TR won't need to block. OK, and we know that this message can be received, and we can transition TS to reply weight. And the other thing that the colonel is gonna do. So once it's confirmed that we have a message waiting for us, is it will then copy the message from the sender's buffer with. it got a pointer to here into the receiver's buffer, which it got a pointer to here. OK, so in the sender, in the sender task, there's two buffers. This is the message buffer. And this is the reply buffer. right? So message buffer and reply buffer. And then the receiver task, there's one buffer. So this is the author. Now there's one buffer. This is the received. offer. So once this receive happens as part of the processing of receive, the kernel is going to copy data from here. into here directly. OK, so what we're not doing is buffering data up in the kernel ever. OK, buffered in the sender until there was a receiver ready to receive it. And then the colonel is coming to fights from here to here. OK, so how many bytes does it copy? OK, so it's going to copy. It's going to look at this, which is the size of the sender's buffer. And instead of look at this, which is the size of the receiver's buffer, and it's going to copy whichever is the smaller of the two, what. it doesn't want to do is overflow this buffer OK under any circumstances when it does the copy. received how many have been created if. the task receive hasn't even been created then send is an error. OK, so this needs to exist. I think. that's the way it's defined. It's just an error. If that TID is not like an immediate error, you don't block. There's no such process you can send to. outrageous. How's the appointment to the mask? It's to the receipt and offload. How can you see? So we could do that. But that would mean that we have a task that's sort of directly accessing memory in another task, which we don't wanna do. OK, so just. like we would do with a just like a normal kernel would do, right? It's the kernel that will be responsible for that movement of data from one pass to another. Now, the only thing that we're doing that's a little unusual is with. a lot of other message passing primitives and a lot of other kernels when the send happens the kernel copies the data from here into there and. when the receipt happens later, the kernel copies the data from here into the receiver's book right and what what this API is doing has a synchronous is the kernel doesn't need to store anything it stays nice and small OK and it just moves the data directly from here to here. Well, both of those tasks are blocked essentially. does the sender need to receive unlocked the sender needs to receive a reply to get unblocked it does it does yes so it will when the receiver receives its state will transition in the kernel right cuz now it's just waiting for the reply but it's. still blocked it like but it can't do something like I don't know it gets like reply buffer like null or something so it doesn't like have to wait for a reply it cannot it needs to pass a buffer you could I guess I mean that's not. that would not be a horrible sort of generalization of this to implement but that's not what's described to me here you could do that it doesn't make sense. I mean what if the sender doesn't want anything back? It doesn't know which message was received. Yeah, most of which you're gonna be doing with this is. client and server are you almost always wanna response to those messages. You're gonna be sent you're gonna be using this to send a message to a server the server's gonna process a message and the server is gonna generate some kind of a property assuming they receive buffer is smaller than we send Buffett we just forget about the rest of the message or do we say a second receive call will give you forget about the rest of the message you copy as much as you can without the word friend to buffer and you tell the receiver how much data it actually got and that's. and that's a that is a That's an application-level bug. If that happens that your application needs to deal with. OK. OK so I'm doing the receive. this happens. The data is moved. from TS to. to TR by the kernel. OK and the receiver stays in ready state. and let's just quickly talk about what happens if this goes the other way around. So the nice thing about this when it happens is that this the receiver task is never gonna block. OK, it doesn't block when it does the receive and it won't block when it does the reply later OK. The only thing can never block is the sender desk in this case, it is possible for the receiver to block if there really is nothing for it to receive so. in this case we're doing things in the other order so number one is the risk. So the first thing that happens is that TR receives. and what do we do? What is the car will do? Yup. It was interesting. Okay, so it's gonna kernel is gonna move. TR from. a running actually to. and it's gonna block this task. OK, now that this task is blocked, the kernel will schedule it. Will pick some other tasks to run, and eventually it should pick this task. So at some point in the future TS is gonna send. And this time TS is not going to block, right? So what's gonna happen once the kernel gonna do? Yep, immediately, immediately copied a message over and put yes in reply. So it's gonna put moves. TS from. ready to directly to reply with. right? Because its message will go. It's going to move the data. from TR to TS. Oops. TSTTR. and then it's going to unblock. So TR is gonna go from. reply week. Let me see weight. Ok so one of those two things will happen. I don't know which order of those two things will occur, but either it's going to be this order or this order. And either way, we end up with the message copied over into the receiver. And this thing. in reply wait state and this thing runable. OK and now this will run and eventually it's going to do a reply and that. TID that it specifies in this reply right will be ATID of somebody that has already sent to the message OK so in this case, it can be the TID of TS OK and when that reply happens. so eventually we get to this. what is the kernel do? So TR the receiver that's doing the reply. stays ready. OK the sender the TS that it's replying to is already blocked and waiting for that message right so. the kernel is just going to copy the reply. to. from. TR to TS and it's going to move. TS from reply weight. to ready. and the send is on the replyer stays ready. So after this both tests will be ready and the kernel will pick one to run and this task will have gotten. a message from a reply buff that was created over here put into its reply buffer which it can. be OK Yeah so what's the practical difference between reply waiting versus received in both cases. the receiver is just waiting for its reply buffer to build. That's right. So in both cases like both of those things have to happen in order for me to continue so. distinguishing between those two states for example lets the colonel check when I do reply that that TID is in reply weight state. so it is a it is AI don't wanna just say is it a task that's blocked I wanna know is it a test that's blocked because its message has been received and it's waiting for a reply so. that distinction. allows the colonel to make that check right. that's the main thing actually you need to be able to do that checks. zero1 server and two tasks that respond to the server to the sender. since we're not a spectrum when you have extend and that's at least if I said to pass by I can get a response from password in that I think where I have my reply over so this is the this is like the question that you weren't asking me before right so this allows for the reply to come you from anybody I'm assuming in the example that I'm writing up here that. the order right will not I'm not sitting is in order but I'm assuming that the reply is sent by the same test that received in the original message this is like the question I was asked before like I think I think the API does not demand that it allows the reply to be sent so it allows the receiver to receive the message right and then send it along to some other task that will eventually generate a reply to the original senator. but you know I was you know II failed to think of an example where I would want to do that so it's like if you do the normal thing which is that you're implementing a server and you're sending it requests and it's eventually generating a reply the same test that did the receiving is the one that they would do but it might not do them in. it might not do the reply immediately right so far K2 as a little demo for us you're going to build a server that does just plays rock paper scissors right between two clients so. the way that this works is you know each of the clients is going to pick drop or paper or scissors and it's going to send its choice to the server as a message and the reply that it's going to get back from the server is going to tell the result of the game you can rock and I pick paper and so you lose and I would right so you'll get that result back so from the server in that example it doesn't know which of the two players is going to send the message 1st and it needs both messages to generate a reply. so that server is going to do a receive right and it will get the 1st message from one of the players saying I think. and then it will it can't generate a reply right away but Another receipt and get the message from the other player and say, I kick scissors. OK, and then it can say, ohh OK, scissors beats paper. So now I'm gonna generate two replies to both. to both of the original fights, telling them that telling them the paper person that they lost and telling the scissors person that they did. Does that make sense? So it's so it's not received, reply or see the reply. In this case, it's received, received, reply replies. And that's perfectly fine with this. APL. OK, and both, and both both. Each player is gonna stay that sense in the original message, saying paper and scissors is gonna remain blocked until. it gets its reply from the server telling it whether its choice was the winning choice or the residence. This is the problem I was thinking was the server here. being a centre. to player one. It's giving me giving your choice and then sending the player to giving me a choice. And now I was thinking ohh, but then which one I don't know. It didn't wanna send it past 5. I don't necessarily receive a message 5 threads right, but I guess that way it works simply yeah, so. it works are realistic then you send your blocks you can't take more than one send going. so yeah, it's it's not possible for a test to have two sends in flight because it seems to be the 1st one so. this is a good question. So I want to stop here because we're at a time, but next time I want to talk about like. common sort of communication patterns like you know producer consumer and so multiple producer multiple consumer and talk about certain what you can build those using this API just don't talk about like how do you say which means they're doing any sense and one of them is I think the question that you're raising which is you know when you have messages going from 1 place to another are you. pushing them or pulling right so is that so is that server just like I'm having having requests pushed to it by clients they might describe there's the server like pulling stuff in front by sending them something saying give me the next thing getting it back in the report so. both of those both of those things can be built this way but they in some situations it makes more sense to do things as a whole than a push and. I think that might be what we were examples to get whether it makes sense to have that server as something to be pushed to or whether the server is something that actively close messages and it's hard to be pulled when you don't know who's gonna be who's gonna be sending something to the next whether. it's easy to push. alright so this is the I have more to talk about about these things next time but this is like the these are the main things that you need to implement for K2. and it's not that complicated. It's just that the A. P. I might not be the kind of API that you're used to if you're used to sockets and other kinds of means of communications that are normally non-blocking because. the Colonel is responsible for buffering data OK. really like what I what I have as an array. It just passed as a priority was in the array and I'm thinking of after these test runs the back we we set a priority to 1 and any informant every other task priority what you're changing the priorities. you're changing the priorities a little away. Yeah. I always thought that the priority is like no let's not do that because this introduced by unless start simple starting long and then go I'm gonna do the 2QA like right now look we're all dealing with Thai and Lowe's already zero me slow one is high so how was I gonna start with this like II don't wanna deal with any sorting in the future we could use a heat but but right now let's just use two cues all right so I probably did I felt like the right simple string I could do. or you can tell me the code and I can code very simple priority is priority is this thing. the constant abstract I get it but the issue is I need to code it up on here because the programmer tell me like this is this call based in Cisco right let me turn off my voice