Handle that message You wanted to handle the request. So launching another task, you know how to do that. You can use create. How are you actually? How is this actually gonna know what to do once it spins up? Yeah, you send it a message wrapped in some construction. OK, so the so 1 thing you can do, and the thing you can do with the printers we already have, is. create that task. And the first thing you wanna do is send it a message that says, here's your job. And by the way, here's the TID of the task you should send your response to. But you don't want this to do a send. Because if this doesn't send, it's gonna block until this receives it. And we've gone to a lot of trouble to make servers that never have to do sends. So that would be kind of unfortunate. But we know how to solve that problem now So how would I actually get that message to hear? I would use consumer pull, right? So I would spin this thing up. I would use create. And then the first thing this does is it sends a message to this server that says, what's my job? Right? The server will receive that message along with a message that's receiving from the clients, and it receives that kind of message. It says, oh, your job was this task, and send a reply to this TID. So it will send that as the reply to this message, and then the server can do its job. OK, so that's all. That's a way to do this. An even nicer way to do this handoff that will avoid this message exchange is, if you made the create system call a little more general, so that you could pass a parameter to that function that the new process is gonna run. And then you could just create the new task and have it run a function, and the parameter of that function is the information that that function needs to know what to do, like the TID. That's a very easy generalization to create, to do, right? So that's a second way of getting this set up. But if you don't generalize create, then again, you would need these anytime you want communication between. tasks like this, you use these messages. And how would this know? who to send its requests? Who to send it? What do I do? Request to. Yeah. Could hardcode it? Or we have a convenience kernel API. That is, what is my parents right? Task ID, right? Which makes it easy for parents and children to communicate with each other, right? Because parents know that TIDS of their children, and children know the TID of their parent. So this task can find out who its parent is, get that TID, and then use that TID to send. I don't know whether you're actually gonna want to build this structure, but the primitives these three primitives that you have, once you build them, you can build all of this stuff, as long as you're careful about who does the Senate and who does the receipt. Yeah, though I understand why we want to do consumer pull in this instance, doesn't that also mean we run into a race condition and we now need to offer in the server to hold all the messages that yet? Certainly the server needs to hold anything that it has handed off on. until it gets that that message. So yeah, there's buffering that the server needs to do in that case. Alright Any questions about this stuff? I was reading the kitchen. Was it interesting? I was name server in the game server. OK, so let me talk about the name server first, and then we can talk about the game server. So I'm not gonna erase this. I'm sure he left that up there, but one of the things you need to build for K2 is this name server. And what the name server is doing is solving a problem called name resolution. Let me talk about that in a second. And the name server. is it? It's a task whose job it is to map me. names which are just strings. So names of tasks to task ids. OK, so it lets you give a name to a task that the name is something that your application gets to choose. OK, and it's mapping that name to TID, which is something that the kernel chooses when it creates that text. So it's important to do this mapping because you don't wanna hard code TIDS into your application because you don't know, like, depending on sort of how your application sets up. You don't know what TID the current. is gonna assign to the tasks in your application. OK, when you write the application, right? So instead, you're gonna like, assign names to tasks that your application can choose. And you can hard code those names, cause that's your choice. And then we'll have this service that will map those names to whatever TID the kernel picks for the tasks that make up your application. So that's why we have to split this up into two. That's why we have two namespaces. The name space your application chooses, and the namespace that the kernel chooses, which is the T ids. OK, so the name server is implementing this very simple interface. It's just got two functions, registered as. and this takes a name. which is just a character stream as a parameter. And who is. Which also just takes a name. OK, so a task. calls this like uses the name server calls register as of the name server with whatever name it wants for itself and what register as does when a task causes is it associates this name with the caller's task id so another task you're gonna have to start up for. P-2 is this game server task OK so maybe you'll call your game server task game server OK. and when that game server task starts up, it's gonna wanna do register as game server and what that's gonna do is it's going to associate the name game server with whatever the TID of that game server task is. OK and when some other task wants to call wants to talk to the game server, they're gonna call who is game server and this is gonna return the TID associated with game server so that clients the game server clients will use this to find out what the TID of the name server of the game server is so that they can send their rock, paper, scissors moves off to that themselves. OK. just quickly how does register as get OK? let's let me let me talk about implementing these in a second but this is the This is what the the API is for the name server OK and the idea is that sort of any other task will use these two functions for now they're magic, but we use these 2 functions to register their name. with a their T associate a name that they choose with their TID or to ask which TID is associated with this name. OK. so we'll talk about implementation in a second so what this this thing that the name server is doing is called name resolution. It's just in our case it's mapping names to TIDS. but name resolution is like one of these problems that happens all over the place and there's a Jillian systems out there that solve some version of this name resolution. This is just our. any sort of any any system of any complexity at all is gonna have a name resolution problem in it somewhere that needs to be solved. So this is our little name resolution problem. We just need to map names that your application chooses to TIDS but other places where name resolution to cars like all over the place like every file system that you use is a name resolver right that that the data for your file is actually stored on the storage device somewhere in some. blocked number on some number device that you have no idea what it is but that the you know the colonel picked when it decided where to store your data right so your file help you know my resume dot doc right is sitting in block 357 on a hard drive somewhere right so that's the internal name that the colonel needs to use to actually find that data what you wanna say is you know open resume dot doc and what's. and what the file system is doing is mapping resume dot dot to block 397 on the disk through some complicated method that you use this but that's main resolution right whenever you're sending whenever your your you know your web browser is sending a request to you Waterloo .Ca whatever right there is meme resolution that's mapping that domain name you want to leave that CA to an IP address right so that that message can be routed. OK and there's another name resolution that's eventually gonna map that IP address to a local you know an Ethernet address on some local network so that that packet can get to its final destination. So they're all just name resolution systems that are just mapping you know one set of names that you know 1 application like defines to another set of names that another application defined so that you know things can get to where they need to go and in our world all we have to do is kind of map these application names to TIDS That's the name resolution you need to solve so whenever you do name resolution not just here but anywhere there's name resolution like. there's always you know something or somebody you ask to resolve the name OK. and so it's it turns into this recursive problem like I wanna resolve this name until I have to ask somebody to resolve it for me but how do I know who to ask like what's the name of the thing to ask right so I have like I now have like the same problem again like to find the name of my server. How do I find to find the name of the game server how do I find the name of the name server so that I can ask it where the game server is I can. I can't ask the name Sir for that question because I try to find the name server so. these processes are recursive because you always have to ask somebody to do this and so somehow we have to ground that recursion or it's always gonna be somebody else to ask right I have I can have layers of name resolution but eventually II get to the point where I have to ground this so there has to be like some hard-coded thing some convention something at the bottom of of all this to ground it so in our name resolution we're not gonna go through multiple levels. We only have sorry one level of this is just a name server but we still have to ground this so we have to do something so that you know where the name server is OK and we're gonna just do the hacky thing which is just we're gonna make. sure that everybody that there is a hard-coded task ID for the nameserver OK your kernel has to create the name server with that task IDOK and all of your application programs have to have that task ID built into them somehow. that's the only thing they need to have built in is that TID of the of the name server anything else they wanna find. They'll ask the name server for but we have to ground this by hard-coding that TID. OK so that means your kernel needs to have a way of your system somehow needs to have a way of launching the name server task with a known TID whatever you decide it's gonna be. Maybe your initial task is gonna be task 0 and you're gonna make your name server task always be T. I. D. One maybe O. K. And all of your applications that need to sort of exchange messages with each other will know that TID one is where I go to to contact the names of and then the name service stores this mapping and everything else is good. OK, so for name resolution, in our case, the name server does this. And the name server. has to have. a fix. TID. It's known to both. the kernel. and application. Actually, if the application had a way of creating a task with a specified TID, the kernel would even have to know this. Your application would just have to have a way of doing that. But we don't have that. So the Colonel's gotta have a way of creating that name server task with a with a fixed TID. So this is sometimes this is called a. this is called a closure mechanism. So this is whatever the mechanism is that you use to ground this recursion so every meme resolver has some kind of some way of grounding the recursion yet. so that is a time tuned can, we just assume that whenever for example, we ask for the TOD of the game server, it doesn't change for a lifetime of the system. Yeah, so all this is completely unspecified and it's up to you so. yeah, so there's a lot of related questions so should you have a time to live for these things what happens if somebody tries to register. a name that is already registered. What happens if somebody sort of asks who is for a name that's not there you decide these things OK so you know, one reasonable solution you can do is no time to live and allow overwrite of registrations right so that you know if a task were to die for some reason and you were to launch another task with that to take over its role. It could just register itself, but that would mean that we have to ask every time we're sending a message of who is before me. Yeah, yeah. so if you want to cash, then you need time to live so that you have some way of invalidating your cache or you need some other mechanism for knowing when to refresh your cash. Yeah, I think. I think this this is this is probably gonna be overkill for the kind of stuff that you're doing here. It should be enough like yeah, you're not gonna be running this for hours and you probably don't have to worry about tasks dying and sort of restarting that stuff, so it should be enough to do it. OK, so now let's go back so let's go back to talk about sort of implementing these things so. this is the name server api. I regret that this api is discussed in the same document as the system call interface in a document called kernel interface because these. are these are not system calls. OK this is the name server api and the name server is a user task, not the kernel So these are not system calls. They're not things that you implement with an SVC instruction like you would create or send or receive. So how are you gonna implement these things? So the idea is that you're gonna implement each of these things as a sort of a user. function. that wrap. send. receive reply. and any other system calls that you need to implement these things. OK, so the idea is when a process does when the task does who is named this is just a essentially a user function. Think of it as a library function that all of your user tasks can use and it wraps a send to the name server which sends a message to the name server that says you know what does this name map to and the name server will then send a reply back to. the function that did that send and that function will unpack the reply and then return right to its caller with the TID of the of the test that it got from the nameship and similarly with this you're gonna is gonna be a function that's going to wrap a call. to get my TID from the colonel OK so I know what is my TID and then ascend to the name server that will send the name and my TID to the name server and will register my TID under that name at the name server and wait for a reply. So these are just user functions that you're gonna implement by. calling the kernel functions that we already have to do them the messages change and then the nameserver process is just something that process that starts up and it does receive and it waits for messages to come in and it unpacks those messages and the messages that it gets will either be a register as message or a who is message and it will decide what kind of message it is and either do a an update of its data structure or a look up in its data structure and then send the reply. So once you've got send and receive right then. these two things. should be very easy to build because they're just using those system puzzle. So make sense OK and so you asked the difference between the name server and the game server on the desktop. Is it all make sense now? OK, so you will need for K2. You'll need a name server, which will have to be created with this known TID and.