A description of the structure of your program. 

- The structure of my program is as follows: I have a polling loop in which I would have a queue that contains all the instructions for the Marklin controller. The queue is to be popped every 1.5 tenths of a second to not overload the Marklin controller. 
- I have two variables I used to read the Marklin:  ```polling_s88 and polling_s88_byte```. `polling_s88` defines the s88 that the program is interested in reading and `polling_s88_byte` is the byte number. When I call `read_multiple_s88` or `0x85` it alerts the Marklin to start sending information on it's sensors back to the raspberry pi. Since the pi is too fast to handle concurrently the commands are to be put into the `FR` queue.  I must keep a counter to keep track of the bytes sent back as their order is important. I need to know which byte corresponding to which sensor on the track enable to display the recently pressed sensors. 
- The raspberry pi would only do another read if it is not in read already and there are no commands in the execution queue. The conditions are `polling_s88 = 0` and `UART_REG(line, UART_FR) & UART_FR_RXFE == 0`. `polling_s88` is set to 0 right after the program finishes reading from the response queue.  `UART_REG(line, UART_FR) & UART_FR_RXFE == 0` when there are no bytes in the input for the pi. Since the marklin sends the commands slower than the pi can process, one cannot expect to get the full input every loop without running the risk of a polling loop being longer than 0.1 seconds. If there are commands in the execution queue, then there may be a backup and my "circular queue" structure would fall apart as it would overflow. Some commands would not be able to be executed as they are overrided by the pointers.
	- One drawback to this design is the Marklin would not be able to read from the tracks when it is in the middle of executing commands "i.e reversing a train". However even though it is able to poll the track the information is useless as it cannot be react upon. 
- I also employed what I call "lazy print" in which I would print the elements atomically. That is instead of refreshing the entire screen, I would only reprint the section that have changed. For example when a switch changed. I would just reprint that single switch instead of refreshing the screen. Such eliminates the print bottleneck and drastically decrease my polling loop time. The same  for the live switches and the recently activated the bytes are updated on read individually. 
- I also modified the get_c command in such that it would not buzywait for the next character. If there exist no character in the queue the modified command would just return a 0 character and move on. One cannot busywait as there are other tasks needed to be done when there exist no character input, i.e checking for track readings. 
- I use a char array as the string for my command. One can type command an even backspace mistakes. I also have a parse command function that would parse the command into the parameters and then enqueue the marklin command. 
- When the program is ran it goes through a track initialization phaise in which is stops the trains, sets all track direction to straight and then to curved. Such is meant to be a visual and auditory hardware debugger to see which solonoid have been burnt. I have incorporate my lazy print strategy with my switch update. Thus the screen updates exactly the same time as the track update. There are no prior update on the screen then track. I also have a marklin read test at program start to verify is it possible to connect to the marklin. If either the marklin is off or disconnected one must reboot the pie as I utilized the old get_c busywait function. This in turn gets the read time of the marklin. 



We will judge your program primarily on the basis of this description. Describe which algorithms and data structures are used and why you chose them. 
- the data structures I implemented in the assignment are strings, circular queues and circular lists.
- "circular queue" is a list with two pointers, the head pointer and the end pointer. Every time I enqueue an element I would set the element pointed by the end pointer to the enqueued element and increment the end pointer. When I pop the queue I would just increment the head pointer. If the end or head pointer reaches the end of the list it would just start from the front again. A queue structure is needed as the marklin is unable to process commands sequencially unlike the pi. Thus a queue with an execution delay is needed to communicate with the Marklin. The circular queue is also a two dimensional array as most marklin commands are two bytes. 
	- The circular queue is easy to implement as compared to a linked list. For a linked list I need to allocate memory and judging there is no free function. I am aware I am not going to get allocated memory back after elements are popped from the list. Thus a circular queue provides a convenient way to implement queue like functionality without much complexity. One drawback is the queue only have limited capacity. However the queue I set can hold 200 commands and read commands are only enqueued when the queue is empty and when there is not a read in process. 
- I also maintained a simply "circular list" to keep track of the recent sensor inputs. A circle list is much like a list however with only one pointer maintained. The pointer to the back. Since I am only going to print the 10 most recent entries I do not need to keep a large dynamically sized list. I can just iterate backwards from the last element. I can easily get the 10 most recent sensor commands to be printed on the screen. 

This description should include a list of unimplemented aspects of the assignments, if any. Also, if you know of bugs in your implementation describe them explicitly.